[Editorial review] BiDi - Add pages for browsingContext module, part 2: context lifecycle command and events (#44279)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/webdriver/reference/bidi/modules/browsingcontext/gettree/index.md

---
title: "`browsingContext.getTree` command"
short-title: getTree
slug: Web/WebDriver/Reference/BiDi/Modules/browsingContext/getTree
page-type: webdriver-command
browser-compat: webdriver.bidi.browsingContext.getTree
sidebar: webdriver
---

The `browsingContext.getTree` [command](/en-US/docs/Web/WebDriver/Reference/BiDi/Modules#commands) of the [`browsingContext`](/en-US/docs/Web/WebDriver/Reference/BiDi/Modules/browsingContext) module returns the tree of all [top-level contexts](/en-US/docs/Web/WebDriver/Reference/BiDi/Modules/browsingContext#top-level_context) or the subtree starting with the specified context.

## Syntax

```json-nolint

> {

Reviewer: Since the params are option, show a basic syntax example with no params, then a version with all optional params?

Author: Good idea. I was trying to stick to the pure syntactic form.

But your comment reminded me that I've used a similar approach in the past when documenting web app manifest member pages ([example](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Progressive_web_apps/Manifest/Reference/icons#syntax)).

I've updated the syntax block for `browsingContext.getTree` like so:

> ## Syntax
> 
> ```json-nolint
> /* Without optional parameters */
> {
>   "method": "browsingContext.getTree",
>   "params": {}
> }
> 
> /* With optional parameters */
> {
>   "method": "browsingContext.getTree",
>   "params": {
>     "maxDepth": 1,
>     "root": "93ee5bd6-d256-4608-a002-9a8995cc0e5f"
>   }
> }
> ```

If this looks good, I can apply the same pattern to the other BiDi pages in a follow-up PR.

Reviewer: The examples look great. The only thing I'd say is that JSON files don't support comments as regular JS does. I'd therefore suggest putting the comments as content lines rather than comments.

Reviewer: Ah, wait, this is probably fine as-is, as I think an object is actually returned rather than JSON?

Author: The message will be sent as JSON over WebSocket.
But for documentation purpose, we're anyway using `json-nolint` in the syntax block, so comments would be okay

  "method": "browsingContext.getTree",
  "params": {}
}
```

### Parameters

> The `params` field contains:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `params` field can contain:
```

### Return value

The `result` object in the response contains the following fields:

- `contexts`
  - : An array of context objects, each representing the properties of a context. Each object has the following fields:
    - `children`
      - : An array of context objects that represents the child contexts of this context. Each child object has the same structure, with its own `children` array, making this a recursive representation of the context tree.
        An empty array indicates that the context has no children, while a `null` value indicates that children are excluded from the response, such as when the `maxDepth` limit is reached.
    - `clientWindow`
      - : A string that contains the ID of the [client window](/en-US/docs/Web/WebDriver/Reference/BiDi/Modules/browser#client_windows) that contains this context.
    - `context`
      - : A string that contains the ID of the context.
    - `originalOpener`
      - : A string that contains the ID of the context that originally opened this context.
        The value is `null` if the context was opened directly (not by another context).

        > [!NOTE]

>         > `originalOpener` is set once at the time the context is created, never changes, and always retains the opener's context ID. This differs from the JavaScript [`window.opener`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/opener) property, which references the window that opened the current window — it becomes `null` if the [`rel=noopener`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Attributes/rel/noopener) attribute is used on the link or if the [`noopener`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/open#noopener) window feature is specified in {{domxref("window.open()")}}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        > `originalOpener` is set once, when the context is created. It never changes and always retains the opener's context ID. This differs from the JavaScript [`window.opener`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/opener) property, which references the window that opened the current window — it becomes `null` if the [`rel=noopener`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Attributes/rel/noopener) attribute is used on the link or if the [`noopener`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/open#noopener) window feature is specified in {{domxref("window.open()")}}.
```

            "url": "https://example.com/frame.html",
            "userContext": "default",
            "clientWindow": "08c697a1-2664-447d-9c88-52bcee3bb386"
          }
        ],
        "originalOpener": null,
        "url": "https://example.com/page1.html",
        "userContext": "default",
        "clientWindow": "08c697a1-2664-447d-9c88-52bcee3bb386",
        "parent": null
      },
      {
        "context": "32ed30da-24ad-459d-8f0d-660526e92d96", // Tab 2
        "children": [], // No child contexts
        "originalOpener": "93ee5bd6-d256-4608-a002-9a8995cc0e5f",
        "url": "https://example.com/page2.html",
        "userContext": "default",
        "clientWindow": "08c697a1-2664-447d-9c88-52bcee3bb386",
        "parent": null
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

### Getting a subtree from a specific context

Using the same setup as in the previous example, to get only Tab 1 and its immediate child context, send the following message with Tab 1's context ID as `root` and `maxDepth` set to `1`:

```json
{
  "id": 2,
  "method": "browsingContext.getTree",
  "params": {
    "root": "93ee5bd6-d256-4608-a002-9a8995cc0e5f",
    "maxDepth": 1
  }
}
```

> The browser responds with Tab 1 and its immediate child. The `children` field for the iframe is `null`; the `maxDepth` setting of `1` limits the response to one level below the root, so the iframe's own children are not included:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The browser responds with Tab 1 and its immediate child. The `children` field for the iframe is `null`; the `maxDepth` setting of `1` limits the response to one level below the root, so the `<iframe>`'s own children are not included:
```

```json
{
  "id": 2,
  "type": "success",
  "result": {
    "contexts": [
      {
        "context": "93ee5bd6-d256-4608-a002-9a8995cc0e5f",
        "children": [
          {
            "context": "6442450945",
            "children": null,
            "originalOpener": null,
            "url": "https://example.com/frame.html",
            "userContext": "default",
            "clientWindow": "08c697a1-2664-447d-9c88-52bcee3bb386"
          }
        ],
        "originalOpener": null,
        "url": "https://example.com/page1.html",
        "userContext": "default",
        "clientWindow": "08c697a1-2664-447d-9c88-52bcee3bb386",
        "parent": null
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

> In this example, if the `root` parameter of the `browsingContext.getTree` message were set to the iframe's context ID (`"6442450945"`), the iframe's `parent` field in the response would be `"93ee5bd6-d256-4608-a002-9a8995cc0e5f"` (Tab 1's context ID) rather than `null`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, if the `root` parameter of the `browsingContext.getTree` message were set to the iframe's context ID (`"6442450945"`), the `<iframe>`'s `parent` field in the response would be `"93ee5bd6-d256-4608-a002-9a8995cc0e5f"` (Tab 1's context ID) rather than `null`.
```
